Hitmonchan and Hitmonlee are based on Jackie Chan and Bruce Lee, respectively.
If a Pokemon existed that had every type, it would only be weak to Rock types.
Ekans spells "Snake" backwards, and Arbok "Kobra."
Poliwag’s swirls actually resemble a real-life tadpole’s intestines.
Arcanine was originally intended to be a legendary Pokemon, but was replaced by Moltres.
The names for each of the three legendary birds ends in Spanish: ArticUNO, ZapDOS and MolTRES.
Mr. Mime can also be a girl, even though the female Pokemon's name would still include "Mr.".
Azurill has a 25 percent chance of changing gender when it evolves.
Pikachu (Mouse Pokemon) has a pokedex number of 25, while Meowth (Cat Pokemon) has one of 52. Reverse those and you can see that they are the opposite of one another, just like cats and mice.
Gengar is a Shadow type Pokemon and this "shadow" may be related to how similar it looks to Clefable.
"Pokemon" is not a Japanese word, but rather a combination of the two English words “pocket” and “monster.”
In the original Red and Blue versions of the game, you could tell the gender of a Pokemon by its Attack Rate and Defense Rate; this did not apply to legendary Pokemon.
In the original games the player could cut a tree down, stand where it used to be, save/restart, and end up on top of the tree.
If a Pikachu from Pokemon Yellow is uploaded to Pokemon Stadium, it will be voiced by Ikue Ohtani and have unique sound effects.
From the start, in Japan, Ash was known as Satoshi, a common name, but also a clear reference to Pokemon creator and Game Freak boss, Satoshi Tajiri. Meanwhile, Ash's original rival, Gary Oak, was known as Shigeru, an obvious tribute to the creator of Mario, Zelda, and too many others to name, Shigeru Miyamoto.
Hypno, a Pokemon with the ability to hypnotize his opponents, has been known to kidnap children.
Doduo can learn fly, apparently by moving its legs around very fast, even though it has no wings.
When Paras evolves into Parasect, one of the parasitic mushroom on its back absorbs the other and takes over the host, which explains the Pokémon’s blank, white eyes. It becomes a zombie.
Rumors indicate that Giovanni’s Persian is a shiny, evidenced by its pink ears.
In 2008, Japanese scientists discovered a protein and named it “Pikachurin” because it worked very well with electricity.
The first Kadabra was actually a boy with psychic abilities who awoke one morning transformed.
It’s rumored that Mew and Ditto are nearly one and the same, but that Ditto is a failed version of Mew. They both weigh 8.8 lbs, know Transform naturally, are pink but blue when shiny, and can learn every move – if only temporarily for Ditto, and Dittos are found in the same cave as the almost successful clone of Mew, Mewtwo.
The first Pokmon ever designed was Rhydon. In the earliest designs for Capsule Monsters, the game that would ultimately become Pokmon, Rhydon appears multiple times and looks pretty close to his final design. This explains why you see random Rhydon statues in some of the games; theyre a tribute to his importance.
In the South Pacific island of Niue, though they accept New Zealand currency, the government also prints its own cash, sometimes creating special runs of coins. In 2001, they put Pikachu on the back of their one dollar coin to celebrate the series.
The idea of a magical fox pops up a lot in Japanese mythology, usually as tricksters and shape-shifters, though theres also the concept of a powerful, fire-breathing fox with nine tails. Thats where Ninetales comes from, and its also the inspiration for Kurama, the beast that is locked within popular anime star Naruto.
Originally Ash would be accompanied by a Clefairy, with the pink and clawed guy backing up Ash on his adventures. Ultimately this was changed before the show started airing, though in the Red/Blue manga, the Ash surrogate was accompanied by a Clefairy.
Brock continually makes onigiri (aka simple, compacted balls of rice) to serve the group, but most American children, would probably have no clue what those are. So instead onigiri are continually referred to a donuts.
Herman Cain got his start as a pizza restaurant owner, but eventually transitioned into politics, ultimately vying for the republican presidential nomination in 2011. In one speech he had an anonymous quote saying, Life can be a challenge. Life can seem impossible. Its never easy when theres so much on the line. But you and I can make a difference. Theres a mission just for you and me. Soon enough someone identified those as the lyrics to Power of One from the film Pokemon 2000.
The Kanto region is based on a region in Japan with the same name, Kanto is the name of the area in major section of Japan that houses cities like Tokyo and Yokohama. Additionally, Pokmons Kanto recreated famous areas of Japan within the game, such as Mount Silver doubling for Mount Fuji.
In the first episode of the Pokmon anime, Ash is having a tough time on his way to becoming a trainer, such as constantly being shocked by a disobedient Pikachu. What gives him inspiration to keep going? Spotting a then-unidentified legendary Pokmon that wouldnt be introduced into the series officially for a couple more years. Though kept vague at the time, in later episodes it was revealed the bird was the Generation II Legendary, Ho-Oh.
Parasects early Pokedex entries are one of the very rare exceptions of the games referencing a real country. In Pokemon Stadium, the Pokedex says that Parasects spores are used as medicine in China.
Dragonite can go around the world in 16 hours.
Pikachu’s name is a combination of the Japanese onomatopoeia for sparkle, pikapika, and the sound of squeaking, which is expressed as chuchu.
Slowbro is the only Pokémon that can de-evolve. Its pokédex entry says that if the Shellder on its tail is removed, it will revert back into a Slowpoke.
Magneton is made by three Magnemite, yet weighs 10 times more. Magnemite weighs 13.2 pounds, but Magneton weighs 132 pounds. 
The Pokémon Drowzee is based on the tapir. According to Japanese folklore, tapirs eat dreams and nightmares.
It’s thought that psychic-type Pokémon are weak to bug-type, ghost-type, and dark-type Pokémon because they are common fears.
Some Pokémon go through major evolutions after being traded. It’s thought that these evolutions could be caused by fear of abandonment, and that the Pokémon is trying to quickly improve so that their trainers will love them again.
It doesn’t make sense that Pokémon would shout their own names in human language. Instead, it’s thought that human language in the Pokémon universe evolved from Pokémon battle cries.
All the grass starter pokemon are based upon dinosaurs/reptiles.